* [p] 
[1] [2] Bikerumor header logoBikerumor header logo [3]
[4][                    ]
  • [5]News
      □ [6]This Week in Running
      □ [7]Other News
  • [8]Buyer’s Guides
      □ [9]Best Trail Running Shoes
      □ [10]Best Road Running Shoes
      □ [11]Best Running Shoes
      □ [12]Best Running Sunglasses
      □ [13]Best Running Hats
      □ [14]Best Running Headlamps
      □ [15]Best Running Belts
      □ [16]Best Hydration Packs for Running
      □ [17]Best GPS Running Watches
      □ [18]Best Running Socks
      □ [19]Best Running Gaiters
      □ [20]Best Cushioned Trail Running Shoes
      □ [21]Best Lightweight Trail Running Shoes
      □ [22]Best Trail Running Shoes for Mud
      □ [23]Best Cushioned Running Shoes
      □ [24]Best Stability Running Shoes
      □ [25]Best Mountain Running Gear
      □ [26]Best Running Gear for Hot Weather
      □ [27]Best Trekking Poles
      □ [28]Best Running Rain Jackets
      □ [29]Best Windbreaker Jackets
      □ [30]Best Running Shorts for Men
      □ [31]Best Running Shirts for Men
      □ [32]Best Running Underwear for Men
      □ [33]Best Sports Bras for Running
      □ [34]Best Running Shirts for Women
      □ [35]Best Running Shorts for Women
      □ [36]Best Wool Running Apparel
      □ [37]Best Fastpacking Packs
      □ [38]Best Ultralight Tents and Tarps
      □ [39]Best Ultralight Sleeping Bags
      □ [40]Best Ultralight Sleeping Pads
      □ [41]Best Water Filters for Trail Running
      □ [42]Best Reflective Running Gear
      □ [43]Best Winter Running Traction Devices
      □ [44]Best Cold Weather Running Gear
      □ [45]Best Running Gloves
      □ [46]Best Men’s Running Tights
      □ [47]Best Water Bottles for Running
      □ [48]Best Compression Socks
      □ [49]Best Recovery Tools
      □ [50]Best Foam Rollers
      □ [51]Best Massage Guns
      □ [52]Best Foot Massagers
      □ [53]Best Running Insoles
      □ [54]Best Running Headphones
      □ [55]Best Heart Rate Monitors for Running
      □ [56]Best Jogging Strollers
      □ [57]Best Maternity Workout Clothes
      □ [58]Best Trail Running Shoe Brands
      □ [59]Best Running Apparel Brands
      □ [60]Best Websites to Buy Running Gear Online
  • [61]Training
      □ [62]Ultramarathon Training
      □ [63]Training for Beginner Runners
      □ [64]Advanced Training
      □ [65]Strength Training
      □ [66]Racing
      □ [67]Fueling
      □ [68]Hydration
      □ [69]Recovery
      □ [70]Aging
      □ [71]Mental Training and Strategies
      □ [72]Trail Running Skills
          ☆ [73]Uphill Running
          ☆ [74]Running Downhill
          ☆ [75]Trail Running on Technical Terrain
          ☆ [76]Running at Night
          ☆ [77]Navigating While Trail Running
      □ [78]Treadmill Running
      □ [79]Mobility
      □ [80]Cross Training
      □ [81]Off Season
  • [82]Health
      □ [83]Running and Nutrition
      □ [84]Running Injuries
      □ [85]Physiology
      □ [86]Sleep and Running
      □ [87]Stress and Running
      □ [88]Female Health
      □ [89]Extreme Environments
          ☆ [90]Running in Cold Weather
          ☆ [91]Running at High Altitude
          ☆ [92]Running in Hot Weather
      □ [93]Overtraining
      □ [94]Animal Encounters while Running
      □ [95]Running and Illness
      □ [96]First Aid for Running
  • [97]Shoe Reviews
      □ [98]Best Trail Running Shoes
      □ [99]Best Cushioned Trail Running Shoes
      □ [100]Best Lightweight Trail Running Shoes
      □ [101]Best Trail Running Shoes for Mud
      □ [102]Altra Lone Peak 8 Review
      □ [103]Altra Mont Blanc BOA Review
      □ [104]Altra Olympus 5 Review
      □ [105]Altra Outroad 2 Review
      □ [106]Altra Timp 4 Review
      □ [107]Asics Gel-Trabuco 11 Review
      □ [108]Brooks Cascadia 17 Review
      □ [109]Brooks Catamount 2 Review
      □ [110]Dynafit Sky DNA Review
      □ [111]Hoka Mafate Speed 4 Review
      □ [112]Hoka Speedgoat 5 Review
      □ [113]Hoka Tecton X 2 Review
      □ [114]Hoka Torrent 3 Review
      □ [115]Hoka Zinal 2 Review
      □ [116]Icebug Acceleritas8 RB9X Review
      □ [117]Inov-8 X-Talon Ultra 260 V2 Review
      □ [118]La Sportiva Akasha II Review
      □ [119]La Sportiva Blizzard GTX Review
      □ [120]La Sportiva Bushido II Review
      □ [121]La Sportiva Cyklon Review
      □ [122]La Sportiva Jackal II Review
      □ [123]La Sportiva Jackal II BOA Review
      □ [124]Merrell Antora 3 Review
      □ [125]Merrell MTL Skyfire 2 Review
      □ [126]Mizuno Wave Mujin 9 Review
      □ [127]New Balance Fresh Foam X Hierro v7 Review
      □ [128]Nike Kiger 9 Review
      □ [129]Nike React Pegasus Trail 4 Review
      □ [130]Nike Ultrafly Review
      □ [131]Nike ZoomX Zegama Review
      □ [132]On Cloudultra 2 Review
      □ [133]Salomon Glide Max TR Review
      □ [134]Salomon S/Lab Pulsar 2 Review
      □ [135]Salomon S/Lab Ultra 3 V2 Review
      □ [136]Salomon Speedcross 6 Review
      □ [137]Saucony Ride 15 TR Review
      □ [138]Saucony Endorphin Edge Review
      □ [139]Saucony Endorphin Rift Review
      □ [140]Saucony Peregrine 13 Review
      □ [141]Saucony Peregrine 13 ST Review
      □ [142]Scarpa Golden Gate ATR Review
      □ [143]Scarpa Spin Infinity Review
      □ [144]Scarpa Spin Planet Review
      □ [145]Scarpa Spin Ultra Review
      □ [146]Scott Kinabalu Ultra RC Review
      □ [147]Scott Ultra Carbon RC Review
      □ [148]The North Face Summit Vectiv Sky Review
      □ [149]Topo Mtn Racer 3 Review
      □ [150]Topo Pursuit Review
      □ [151]Topo Terraventure 4 Review
      □ [152]Topo Traverse Review
      □ [153]Topo Ultraventure 3 Review
      □ [154]VJ Spark Review
      □ [155]VJ Ultra 2 Review
      □ [156]Best Trail Running Shoe Brands of 2023
  • Other Reviews
      □ [157]Winter Running Traction Device Reviews
          ☆ [158]Best Winter Running Traction Devices
          ☆ [159]Black Diamond Distance Spike Review
          ☆ [160]Hillsound Flexsteps Crampons Review
          ☆ [161]Kahtoola EXOspikes Review
          ☆ [162]Kahtoola MICROspikes Review
          ☆ [163]Yaktrax Pro Review
      □ [164]GPS Running Watch Reviews
          ☆ [165]Best GPS Running Watches
          ☆ [166]Apple Watch Ultra Review
          ☆ [167]Coros Vertix Review
          ☆ [168]Coros Vertix 2 Review
          ☆ [169]Garmin Fenix 6 Pro Review
          ☆ [170]Garmin Fēnix 7 — Solar Edition Review
          ☆ [171]Suunto 9 Baro Review
          ☆ [172]Suunto 9 Peak Titanium Review
          ☆ [173]Suunto Vertical Titanium Solar Review
      □ [174]Headlamp Reviews
          ☆ [175]Best Running Headlamps
          ☆ [176]Black Diamond Icon 700 Headlamp Review
          ☆ [177]Petzl Iko Core Review
          ☆ [178]Petzl Nao RL Headlamp Review
      □ [179]Hydration Pack Reviews
          ☆ [180]Best Hydration Packs for Running
          ☆ [181]Janji Multipass Sling Bag Review
          ☆ [182]Nathan VaporAiress 3.0 7 Liter Women’s Hydration Pack Review
          ☆ [183]Osprey Dyna LT Review
          ☆ [184]Salomon Adv Skin 5 Review
          ☆ [185]Salomon Adv Skin 12 Review
          ☆ [186]Ultimate Direction Ultra Vesta 6.0 Review
          ☆ [187]USWE Pace 2 Running Vest Review
      □ [188]Running Apparel Reviews
          ☆ [189]Arc’teryx Running Apparel Review
          ☆ [190]Black Diamond Rhythm T-Shirt Review
          ☆ [191]Black Diamond Running Gloves Review
          ☆ [192]Black Diamond Rhythm T-Shirt Review
          ☆ [193]Brooks Dare Sports Bra Collection Review
          ☆ [194]DexShell Waterproof Breathable Accessory Review
          ☆ [195]District Vision Men’s Apparel Review
          ☆ [196]Drymax Running Socks Review
          ☆ [197]inov-8 Raceshell HZ Unisex Review
          ☆ [198]Oiselle Running Apparel Review
          ☆ [199]Outdoor Research Running Apparel Review
          ☆ [200]Patagonia Apparel Review
          ☆ [201]Rab Trail Running Apparel Review
          ☆ [202]Rab Kinetic Ultra Waterproof Jacket Review
          ☆ [203]Rabbit Women’s Cold Weather Apparel Review
          ☆ [204]Rabbit Women’s Warm Weather Apparel Review
          ☆ [205]Runderwear Easy-On Running Bra Review
          ☆ [206]Smartwool All-Season Merino Long Sleeve Review
          ☆ [207]Smartwool Women’s Apparel Review
          ☆ [208]Soar Running Apparel Review
          ☆ [209]Soar Running Men’s Apparel Review
          ☆ [210]Stio Women’s Apparel Review
          ☆ [211]Sweat and Milk Venice Sports Bras Review
          ☆ [212]Tracksmith Cold Weather Apparel Review
          ☆ [213]Vuori Women’s Performance Apparel Review
      □ [214]Running Sunglasses Reviews
          ☆ [215]Best Running Sunglasses
          ☆ [216]100% Speedcraft Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [217]Dynafit Sky Pro and Trail Evo Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [218]Rudy Project Propulse Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [219]Smith Bobcat and Smith Shift Mag Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [220]Smith Pinpoint Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [221]Smith Ruckus Review
          ☆ [222]Smith Vert PivLock Review
          ☆ [223]Tifosi Salvo Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [224]Tifosi Tsali and Swank Sunglasses Reviews
      □ [225]Other Running Gear Reviews
          ☆ [226]Black Diamond Distance Carbon Z Poles Review
          ☆ [227]Leki Ultratrail FX.One Superlite Review
          ☆ [228]Pa’lante Packs Joey Review
          ☆ [229]Red Paw Packs Flatiron 28L Review
          ☆ [230]Katadyn BeFree Review
          ☆ [231]LifeStraw Filter Flask Review
          ☆ [232]Mountain Laurel Designs SoloMid XL Tent Review
          ☆ [233]Feathered Friends Flicker UL Quilt Sleeping Bag – 20 Degree
            Review
          ☆ [234]Medi-Dyne Pro Stick Massage Roller Review
          ☆ [235]Hyperice Hypervolt 2 Pro Review
          ☆ [236]Hyperice Normatec 3 Legs Review
          ☆ [237]Roll Recovery R4 Body Roller Review
          ☆ [238]Child Carrier Pack Roundup
          ☆ [239]NordicTrack X22i Treadmill Review
          ☆ [240]NordicTrack X32i Incline Treadmill Review
          ☆ [241]NordicTrack 55 Lb. Select-A-Weight Dumbbells Review
  • [242]People
      □ [243]All of iRunFar’s Interviews and Profiles
      □ [244]The Long Game (In-Depth Profiles of Top Runners)
      □ [245]Age-Old Runners (Profiles of Runners Age 45 and Up)
      □ [246]WeRunFar (Profiles of Community Leaders)
      □ [247]Catching Up With… (Runner Profiles from During the Pandemic)
  • [248]Columns
      □ [249]AJW’s Taproom by Andy Jones-Wilkins
      □ [250]Bryon Powell’s Column
      □ [251]Community Voices by You!
      □ [252]The Examined Run by Sabrina Little
      □ [253]Finding Words by Zach Miller
      □ [254]It Takes a Village by Sarah Brady
      □ [255]Notes from the Trail by Hannah Green
      □ [256]Running on Science by Corrine Malcolm
      □ [257]Running the Numbers by Mallory Richard
      □ [258]Stay the Course by Joe Uhan
      □ [259]This Week in Running by Justin Mock
      □ [260]The Long Game by Sarah Brady
      □ [261]WeRunFar Profiles by Morgan Tilton
      □ [262]Where the Road Ends: A Guide to Trail Running by Meghan Hicks and
        Bryon Powell

[263] iRunFar header logoiRunFar header logo

  • [264]News
      □ [265]This Week in Running
      □ [266]Other News
  • [267]Buyer’s Guides
      □ [268]Best Trail Running Shoes
      □ [269]Best Road Running Shoes
      □ [270]Best Running Shoes
      □ [271]Best Running Sunglasses
      □ [272]Best Running Hats
      □ [273]Best Running Headlamps
      □ [274]Best Running Belts
      □ [275]Best Hydration Packs for Running
      □ [276]Best GPS Running Watches
      □ [277]Best Running Socks
      □ [278]Best Running Gaiters
      □ [279]Best Cushioned Trail Running Shoes
      □ [280]Best Lightweight Trail Running Shoes
      □ [281]Best Trail Running Shoes for Mud
      □ [282]Best Cushioned Running Shoes
      □ [283]Best Stability Running Shoes
      □ [284]Best Mountain Running Gear
      □ [285]Best Running Gear for Hot Weather
      □ [286]Best Trekking Poles
      □ [287]Best Running Rain Jackets
      □ [288]Best Windbreaker Jackets
      □ [289]Best Running Shorts for Men
      □ [290]Best Running Shirts for Men
      □ [291]Best Running Underwear for Men
      □ [292]Best Sports Bras for Running
      □ [293]Best Running Shirts for Women
      □ [294]Best Running Shorts for Women
      □ [295]Best Wool Running Apparel
      □ [296]Best Fastpacking Packs
      □ [297]Best Ultralight Tents and Tarps
      □ [298]Best Ultralight Sleeping Bags
      □ [299]Best Ultralight Sleeping Pads
      □ [300]Best Water Filters for Trail Running
      □ [301]Best Reflective Running Gear
      □ [302]Best Winter Running Traction Devices
      □ [303]Best Cold Weather Running Gear
      □ [304]Best Running Gloves
      □ [305]Best Men’s Running Tights
      □ [306]Best Water Bottles for Running
      □ [307]Best Compression Socks
      □ [308]Best Recovery Tools
      □ [309]Best Foam Rollers
      □ [310]Best Massage Guns
      □ [311]Best Foot Massagers
      □ [312]Best Running Insoles
      □ [313]Best Running Headphones
      □ [314]Best Heart Rate Monitors for Running
      □ [315]Best Jogging Strollers
      □ [316]Best Maternity Workout Clothes
      □ [317]Best Trail Running Shoe Brands
      □ [318]Best Running Apparel Brands
      □ [319]Best Websites to Buy Running Gear Online
  • [320]Training
      □ [321]Ultramarathon Training
      □ [322]Training for Beginner Runners
      □ [323]Advanced Training
      □ [324]Strength Training
      □ [325]Racing
      □ [326]Fueling
      □ [327]Hydration
      □ [328]Recovery
      □ [329]Aging
      □ [330]Mental Training and Strategies
      □ [331]Trail Running Skills
          ☆ [332]Uphill Running
          ☆ [333]Running Downhill
          ☆ [334]Trail Running on Technical Terrain
          ☆ [335]Running at Night
          ☆ [336]Navigating While Trail Running
      □ [337]Treadmill Running
      □ [338]Mobility
      □ [339]Cross Training
      □ [340]Off Season
  • [341]Health
      □ [342]Running and Nutrition
      □ [343]Running Injuries
      □ [344]Physiology
      □ [345]Sleep and Running
      □ [346]Stress and Running
      □ [347]Female Health
      □ [348]Extreme Environments
          ☆ [349]Running in Cold Weather
          ☆ [350]Running at High Altitude
          ☆ [351]Running in Hot Weather
      □ [352]Overtraining
      □ [353]Animal Encounters while Running
      □ [354]Running and Illness
      □ [355]First Aid for Running
  • [356]Shoe Reviews
      □ [357]Best Trail Running Shoes
      □ [358]Best Cushioned Trail Running Shoes
      □ [359]Best Lightweight Trail Running Shoes
      □ [360]Best Trail Running Shoes for Mud
      □ [361]Altra Lone Peak 8 Review
      □ [362]Altra Mont Blanc BOA Review
      □ [363]Altra Olympus 5 Review
      □ [364]Altra Outroad 2 Review
      □ [365]Altra Timp 4 Review
      □ [366]Asics Gel-Trabuco 11 Review
      □ [367]Brooks Cascadia 17 Review
      □ [368]Brooks Catamount 2 Review
      □ [369]Dynafit Sky DNA Review
      □ [370]Hoka Mafate Speed 4 Review
      □ [371]Hoka Speedgoat 5 Review
      □ [372]Hoka Tecton X 2 Review
      □ [373]Hoka Torrent 3 Review
      □ [374]Hoka Zinal 2 Review
      □ [375]Icebug Acceleritas8 RB9X Review
      □ [376]Inov-8 X-Talon Ultra 260 V2 Review
      □ [377]La Sportiva Akasha II Review
      □ [378]La Sportiva Blizzard GTX Review
      □ [379]La Sportiva Bushido II Review
      □ [380]La Sportiva Cyklon Review
      □ [381]La Sportiva Jackal II Review
      □ [382]La Sportiva Jackal II BOA Review
      □ [383]Merrell Antora 3 Review
      □ [384]Merrell MTL Skyfire 2 Review
      □ [385]Mizuno Wave Mujin 9 Review
      □ [386]New Balance Fresh Foam X Hierro v7 Review
      □ [387]Nike Kiger 9 Review
      □ [388]Nike React Pegasus Trail 4 Review
      □ [389]Nike Ultrafly Review
      □ [390]Nike ZoomX Zegama Review
      □ [391]On Cloudultra 2 Review
      □ [392]Salomon Glide Max TR Review
      □ [393]Salomon S/Lab Pulsar 2 Review
      □ [394]Salomon S/Lab Ultra 3 V2 Review
      □ [395]Salomon Speedcross 6 Review
      □ [396]Saucony Ride 15 TR Review
      □ [397]Saucony Endorphin Edge Review
      □ [398]Saucony Endorphin Rift Review
      □ [399]Saucony Peregrine 13 Review
      □ [400]Saucony Peregrine 13 ST Review
      □ [401]Scarpa Golden Gate ATR Review
      □ [402]Scarpa Spin Infinity Review
      □ [403]Scarpa Spin Planet Review
      □ [404]Scarpa Spin Ultra Review
      □ [405]Scott Kinabalu Ultra RC Review
      □ [406]Scott Ultra Carbon RC Review
      □ [407]The North Face Summit Vectiv Sky Review
      □ [408]Topo Mtn Racer 3 Review
      □ [409]Topo Pursuit Review
      □ [410]Topo Terraventure 4 Review
      □ [411]Topo Traverse Review
      □ [412]Topo Ultraventure 3 Review
      □ [413]VJ Spark Review
      □ [414]VJ Ultra 2 Review
      □ [415]Best Trail Running Shoe Brands of 2023
  • Other Reviews
      □ [416]Winter Running Traction Device Reviews
          ☆ [417]Best Winter Running Traction Devices
          ☆ [418]Black Diamond Distance Spike Review
          ☆ [419]Hillsound Flexsteps Crampons Review
          ☆ [420]Kahtoola EXOspikes Review
          ☆ [421]Kahtoola MICROspikes Review
          ☆ [422]Yaktrax Pro Review
      □ [423]GPS Running Watch Reviews
          ☆ [424]Best GPS Running Watches
          ☆ [425]Apple Watch Ultra Review
          ☆ [426]Coros Vertix Review
          ☆ [427]Coros Vertix 2 Review
          ☆ [428]Garmin Fenix 6 Pro Review
          ☆ [429]Garmin Fēnix 7 — Solar Edition Review
          ☆ [430]Suunto 9 Baro Review
          ☆ [431]Suunto 9 Peak Titanium Review
          ☆ [432]Suunto Vertical Titanium Solar Review
      □ [433]Headlamp Reviews
          ☆ [434]Best Running Headlamps
          ☆ [435]Black Diamond Icon 700 Headlamp Review
          ☆ [436]Petzl Iko Core Review
          ☆ [437]Petzl Nao RL Headlamp Review
      □ [438]Hydration Pack Reviews
          ☆ [439]Best Hydration Packs for Running
          ☆ [440]Janji Multipass Sling Bag Review
          ☆ [441]Nathan VaporAiress 3.0 7 Liter Women’s Hydration Pack Review
          ☆ [442]Osprey Dyna LT Review
          ☆ [443]Salomon Adv Skin 5 Review
          ☆ [444]Salomon Adv Skin 12 Review
          ☆ [445]Ultimate Direction Ultra Vesta 6.0 Review
          ☆ [446]USWE Pace 2 Running Vest Review
      □ [447]Running Apparel Reviews
          ☆ [448]Arc’teryx Running Apparel Review
          ☆ [449]Black Diamond Rhythm T-Shirt Review
          ☆ [450]Black Diamond Running Gloves Review
          ☆ [451]Black Diamond Rhythm T-Shirt Review
          ☆ [452]Brooks Dare Sports Bra Collection Review
          ☆ [453]DexShell Waterproof Breathable Accessory Review
          ☆ [454]District Vision Men’s Apparel Review
          ☆ [455]Drymax Running Socks Review
          ☆ [456]inov-8 Raceshell HZ Unisex Review
          ☆ [457]Oiselle Running Apparel Review
          ☆ [458]Outdoor Research Running Apparel Review
          ☆ [459]Patagonia Apparel Review
          ☆ [460]Rab Trail Running Apparel Review
          ☆ [461]Rab Kinetic Ultra Waterproof Jacket Review
          ☆ [462]Rabbit Women’s Cold Weather Apparel Review
          ☆ [463]Rabbit Women’s Warm Weather Apparel Review
          ☆ [464]Runderwear Easy-On Running Bra Review
          ☆ [465]Smartwool All-Season Merino Long Sleeve Review
          ☆ [466]Smartwool Women’s Apparel Review
          ☆ [467]Soar Running Apparel Review
          ☆ [468]Soar Running Men’s Apparel Review
          ☆ [469]Stio Women’s Apparel Review
          ☆ [470]Sweat and Milk Venice Sports Bras Review
          ☆ [471]Tracksmith Cold Weather Apparel Review
          ☆ [472]Vuori Women’s Performance Apparel Review
      □ [473]Running Sunglasses Reviews
          ☆ [474]Best Running Sunglasses
          ☆ [475]100% Speedcraft Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [476]Dynafit Sky Pro and Trail Evo Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [477]Rudy Project Propulse Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [478]Smith Bobcat and Smith Shift Mag Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [479]Smith Pinpoint Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [480]Smith Ruckus Review
          ☆ [481]Smith Vert PivLock Review
          ☆ [482]Tifosi Salvo Sunglasses Review
          ☆ [483]Tifosi Tsali and Swank Sunglasses Reviews
      □ [484]Other Running Gear Reviews
          ☆ [485]Black Diamond Distance Carbon Z Poles Review
          ☆ [486]Leki Ultratrail FX.One Superlite Review
          ☆ [487]Pa’lante Packs Joey Review
          ☆ [488]Red Paw Packs Flatiron 28L Review
          ☆ [489]Katadyn BeFree Review
          ☆ [490]LifeStraw Filter Flask Review
          ☆ [491]Mountain Laurel Designs SoloMid XL Tent Review
          ☆ [492]Feathered Friends Flicker UL Quilt Sleeping Bag – 20 Degree
            Review
          ☆ [493]Medi-Dyne Pro Stick Massage Roller Review
          ☆ [494]Hyperice Hypervolt 2 Pro Review
          ☆ [495]Hyperice Normatec 3 Legs Review
          ☆ [496]Roll Recovery R4 Body Roller Review
          ☆ [497]Child Carrier Pack Roundup
          ☆ [498]NordicTrack X22i Treadmill Review
          ☆ [499]NordicTrack X32i Incline Treadmill Review
          ☆ [500]NordicTrack 55 Lb. Select-A-Weight Dumbbells Review
  • [501]People
      □ [502]All of iRunFar’s Interviews and Profiles
      □ [503]The Long Game (In-Depth Profiles of Top Runners)
      □ [504]Age-Old Runners (Profiles of Runners Age 45 and Up)
      □ [505]WeRunFar (Profiles of Community Leaders)
      □ [506]Catching Up With… (Runner Profiles from During the Pandemic)
  • [507]Columns
      □ [508]AJW’s Taproom by Andy Jones-Wilkins
      □ [509]Bryon Powell’s Column
      □ [510]Community Voices by You!
      □ [511]The Examined Run by Sabrina Little
      □ [512]Finding Words by Zach Miller
      □ [513]It Takes a Village by Sarah Brady
      □ [514]Notes from the Trail by Hannah Green
      □ [515]Running on Science by Corrine Malcolm
      □ [516]Running the Numbers by Mallory Richard
      □ [517]Stay the Course by Joe Uhan
      □ [518]This Week in Running by Justin Mock
      □ [519]The Long Game by Sarah Brady
      □ [520]WeRunFar Profiles by Morgan Tilton
      □ [521]Where the Road Ends: A Guide to Trail Running by Meghan Hicks and
        Bryon Powell

[522]
[523][                    ]
[524]Finding Words

Stride by Stride

Zach Miller advises against prioritizing sponsorship and prize money over the
act of running.

By [525]Zach Miller on January 19, 2024 | [526]Comments
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Support us! iRunFar may earn a small commission from affiliate links in this
article. [527]Learn more.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Earlier this month I started reading “Bird by Bird,” by Anne Lamott. As stated
by its subtitle, the book offers “Some Instructions in Writing and Life.” The
subtitle feels accurate, as before I read the introduction, I gave myself a
sneak peek at some of the book’s latter pages.

Now, I’m not so much for reading out of order, but when my four-year-old
nephew, Ansel, handed me a copy of the book one night, I found myself lost in
the chapter on perfectionism, a trait which I am quite guilty of.

As I read, I felt a bit confused. Lamott seemed to be writing about writing,
but at the same time she also seemed to be writing about life. Was this a book
about life, or one about writing? According to the subtitle, it was both.

When I started the book from its beginning, a had yet another similar
experience. While it was very clear that Lamott was writing about writing, all
I could hear, in a sense, was a piece about running.

As Steven Wright states in the epigraph to John Koenig’s book, “The Dictionary
of Obscure Sorrows,” “I read the dictionary. I thought it was a poem about
everything.” Just as Wright saw poetry in the dictionary, so I saw a commentary
on running in a book about writing and life.

[528]Zach Miller - snow-covered hills

A beautiful winter scene on one of the author’s runs. All photos: Zach Miller

Writing Versus Being Published

Lamott spends the introduction writing about her youth. She details growing up
in a house of readers and writers. She explains her journey into writing, both
the struggle to find her voice and the triumph of finally getting published.
Yet, she admits that “publication” is not all that it is cracked up to be, and
that the true gift is writing itself.

She goes on to talk about how she came to teach writing as well, how it wasn’t
really planned, but now it’s something she continues to do. As she tells of her
experiences as a writing teacher, one thing becomes abundantly clear: She’s
trying to impart her knowledge as a writer on to her students, but all they
seem to want is to figure out how to get published.

They ask about agents and sending manuscripts to publishers. She says, “The
problem that comes up over and over again is that these people want to be
published. They kind of want to write, but they really want to be published.”

Running Versus Being Sponsored

Reading on, I couldn’t help but think of the world of trail running. As the
sport grows, more and more opportunities seem to exist in the way of
sponsorships and paid partnerships. In fact, sometimes it feels like we as
runners are becoming like the writers in Anne Lamott’s classes.

While I’m not certain that the situation is as problematic as my brain might
sometimes make it out to be, I still feel that there is reason to be concerned.

There seems to be at least some degree to which people are asking, “how do I
get sponsored, and how do I get paid (more)?” And while these can be legitimate
questions, I think we ought to be mindful of not getting to the point where we
as runners kind of want to run, but really want to be sponsored.

Now, I realize that I say this from a place of luxury. I am fully aware that
over the last 10 years or so I have worked my way into the “career” side of the
sport. But, if I think about my relationship with running, I feel as though I
am in it for the right reasons. I got into this sport because, one, I love it,
and two, I’m good at it.

To this day, I feel that this holds true. Lamott shares a similar sentiment in
the introduction to her book, stating that her true reason for writing is
because she wants to and because she’s good at it.

She correlates it to a scene in the movie “Chariots of Fire,” in which a famous
Scottish runner, Eric Liddell, tells his sister that he wishes to return to
doing missionary work in China, because he feels it is God’s will for him, but
first he is going to train with all of his heart, because God also made him
very, very fast.

To me, this love of the sport is very important. Sure, people are more than
welcome to pursue things for other reasons, but I think there is a great deal
of value in pursuing something not because it makes money or garners attention,
but because you enjoy it.

[529]Zach Miller - post-cold run

Zach is not put off by the elements when it comes to getting his run in.

As Lamott states in “Bird by Bird,” “I just try to warn people who hope to get
published that publication is not all that it is cracked up to be. But writing
is. Writing has so much to give, so much to teach, so many surprises. That
thing you had to force yourself to do — the actual act of writing — turns out
to be the best part. It’s like discovering that while you thought you needed
the tea ceremony for the caffeine, what to really needed was the tea ceremony.
The act of writing turns out to be its own reward.’’

Replace the word writing with running in the last few sentences and you’ve
pretty much summed up my feelings on this subject.

Earlier this month, I did a podcast with Finn Melanson of “Singletrack,” in
which he asked me what advice I would give to my younger self. While I didn’t
think to reference Lamott’s writings, I essentially echoed what she shared. I
said that my advice would be not to get too caught up in chasing prize money or
sponsorships, but to instead focus on chasing my passions and crushing my
craft.

I like to use the word craft here, because for me, it evokes the right sort of
vibe. To me, a craft is more art form than business. While a businessperson
cares largely about money and productivity, a craftsperson cares about how they
go about doing things and the quality of the finished product. To me, they are
more artist than businessperson.

As the sports of trail running and ultrarunning continue to grow, it is my hope
that we can keep our motives true. Money and business can have their place, but
let’s not put those things before our passion for the sport. I’ll return to the
quote I shared earlier, in which Lamott states that people “kind of want to
write, but they really want to be published.”

She follows this up by saying: “You’ll never get to where you want to be that
way, I tell them. There is a door we all want to walk through, and writing can
help you find it and open it. Writing can give you what having a baby can give
you: it can get you to start paying attention, can help you soften, can wake
you up. But publishing won’t do any of those things; you’ll never get in that
way.”

The same is true with running. It can give us things that sponsorships cannot.
And so, as we proceed in this sport, let’s write with our feet, rather than
publish with our heads.

Call for Comments

  • Are you a competitive runner with sights on being sponsored?
  • What are your thoughts on Zach’s perspective?

Related articles:

 1. [530]Best Running Shoes of 2024 We round up the best running shoes for a
    variety of situations, from road to trail to mud to help you choose the
    best shoe for your needs....
 2. [531]Best Road Running Shoes of 2024 We tested some of the best road
    running shoes to find the best ones for anything from tempo and interval
    workouts to a daily runner....
 3. [532]Best Cold Weather Running Gear of 2024 Here's the best cold weather
    running gear for staying warm, dry, and happy. ...

Zach MillerZach Miller
Zach Miller lives in a school bus he outfitted himself. He competes for The
North Face and Team Colorado. Additional sponsors/supporters include
Clean-N-Jerky, GU Energy Labs, and Nathan Sports. [533]Follow him on Instagram.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[534] View all posts by Zach Miller
Please enable JavaScript to view the [535] comments powered by Disqus.

Follow us!

[536] [537] [538] [539] [540] [541]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[542]Trail Running Shoes

Buyer's Guides and Reviews

[544]Best Trail Running Shoes [545]Best Road Running Shoes [546]Best Running
Shoes [547]Best Running Sunglasses [548]Best Running Hats [549]Best Running
Headlamps [550]Best Running Belts [551]Best Hydration Packs for Running [552]
Best GPS Running Watches [553]Best Running Socks [554]Best Running Gaiters 
[555]Best Cushioned Trail Shoes [556]Best Lightweight Trail Running Shoes [557]
Best Trail Running Shoes for Mud [558]Best Stability Running Shoes [559]Best
Cushioned Running Shoes [560]Best Mountain Running Gear [561]Best Hot Weather
Running Gear [562]Best Trekking Poles [563]Best Running Rain Jackets [564]Best
Windbreaker Jackets [565]Best Running Shorts for Men [566]Best Running Shirts
for Men [567]Best Running Underwear for Men [568]Best Sports Bras for Running 
[569]Best Running Shirts for Women [570]Best Running Shorts for Women [571]Best
Wool Running Apparel [572]Best Fastpacking Packs [573]Best Ultralight Tents and
Tarps [574]Best Ultralight Sleeping Bags [575]Best Ultralight Sleeping Pads 
[576]Best Water Filters for Trail Running [577]Best Reflective Running Gear 
[578]Best Winter Running Traction Devices [579]Best Cold Weather Running Gear 
[580]Best Running Gloves [581]Best Men's Running Tights [582]Best Water Bottles
for Running [583]Best Compression Socks [584]Best Recovery Tools [585]Best Foam
Rollers [586]Best Massage Guns [587]Best Foot Massagers [588]Best Running
Insoles [589]Best Running Headphones [590]Best Heart Rate Monitors [591]Best
Jogging Strollers [592]Best Maternity Workout Clothes [593]Best Trail Running
Shoe Brands [594]Best Running Apparel Brands [595]Best Websites to Buy Running
Gear Online

Trail Running Shoe Reviews

[597]Best Trail Running Shoes [598]Altra Lone Peak 8 [599]Altra Mont Blanc BOA 
[600]Altra Olympus 5 [601]Altra Outroad 2 [602]Altra Timp 4 [603]Asics
Gel-Trabuco 11 [604]Brooks Cascadia 17 [605]Brooks Catamount 2 [606]Dynafit Sky
DNA [607]Hoka Mafate Speed 4 [608]Hoka Speedgoat 5 [609]Hoka Tecton X 2 [610]
Hoka Torrent 3 [611]Hoka Zinal 2 [612]Icebug Acceleritas8 RB9X [613]Inov-8
X-Talon Ultra 260 V2 [614]La Sportiva Akasha II [615]La Sportiva Blizzard GTX 
[616]La Sportiva Bushido II [617]La Sportiva Cyklon [618]La Sportiva Jackal II 
[619]La Sportiva Jackal BOA II [620]Merrell Antora 3 [621]Merrell MTL Skyfire 2
[622]Mizuno Wave Mujin 9 [623]New Balance Fresh Foam X Hierro v7 [624]Nike
Kiger 9 [625]Nike React Pegasus Trail 4 [626]Nike Ultrafly [627]Nike ZoomX
Zegama [628]On Cloudultra 2 [629]Salomon Glide Max TR [630]Salomon S/Lab Pulsar
2 [631]Salomon S/Lab Ultra 3 v2 [632]Salomon Speedcross 6 [633]Saucony
Endorphin Edge [634]Saucony Endorphin Rift [635]Saucony Peregrine 13 [636]
Saucony Peregrine 13 ST [637]Saucony Ride 15 TR [638]Scarpa Golden Gate ATR 
[639]Scarpa Spin Infinity [640]Scarpa Spin Planet [641]Scarpa Spin Ultra [642]
Scott Kinabalu Ultra RC [643]Scott Ultra Carbon RC [644]Speedland SL:PDX [645]
TNF Summit Vectiv Sky [646]The North Face Vectiv Infinite 2y [647]Topo Mtn
Racer 3 [648]Topo Pursuit [649]Topo Terraventure 4 [650]Topo Traverse [651]Topo
Ultraventure 3 [652]VJ Spark [653]VJ Ultra 2

Help Support iRunFar!

                              [654]Patreon button

[655] Logo iRunFarLogo iRunFar
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[656] [657] [658] [659] [660] [661]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • [662]Home
  • [663]About
      □ [664]iRunFar.com
      □ [665]Meghan Hicks
      □ [666]Bryon Powell
      □ [667]Contributors
  • [668]Advertise
  • [669]Archive
  • [670]Our Books
      □ [671]Relentless Forward Progress: A Guide to Running Ultramarathons
      □ [672]Where the Road Ends: A Guide to Trail Running
  • [673]Privacy
  • [674]Contact
  • [675]Support iRF!

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
2024 iRunFar, LLC
[676][                    ]
Quantcast

References:

[1] javascript:;
[2] https://www.irunfar.com/
[3] javascript:;
[5] https://www.irunfar.com/category/news
[6] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/this-week-in-running
[7] https://www.irunfar.com/category/news
[8] https://www.irunfar.com/irunfars-buyers-guides
[9] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes
[10] https://www.irunfar.com/best-road-running-shoes
[11] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shoes
[12] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-sunglasses
[13] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-hats
[14] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-headlamp
[15] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-belt
[16] https://www.irunfar.com/best-hydration-pack-for-running
[17] https://www.irunfar.com/best-gps-running-watch
[18] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-socks
[19] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-gaiters
[20] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cushioned-trail-running-shoes
[21] https://www.irunfar.com/best-lightweight-trail-running-shoes
[22] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes-for-mud
[23] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cushioned-running-shoes
[24] https://www.irunfar.com/best-stability-running-shoes
[25] https://www.irunfar.com/best-mountain-running-gear
[26] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-gear-for-hot-weather
[27] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trekking-poles
[28] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-rain-jacket
[29] https://www.irunfar.com/best-windbreaker-jackets
[30] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shorts-for-men
[31] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shirts-for-men
[32] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-underwear-for-men
[33] https://www.irunfar.com/best-sports-bra-for-running
[34] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shirts-for-women
[35] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shorts-for-women
[36] https://www.irunfar.com/best-wool-running-apparel
[37] https://www.irunfar.com/best-fastpacking-packs
[38] https://www.irunfar.com/best-ultralight-tent
[39] https://www.irunfar.com/best-ultralight-sleeping-bag
[40] https://www.irunfar.com/best-ultralight-sleeping-pad
[41] https://www.irunfar.com/best-water-filter-for-trail-running
[42] https://www.irunfar.com/best-reflective-running-gear
[43] https://www.irunfar.com/best-winter-running-traction-devices
[44] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cold-weather-running-gear
[45] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-gloves
[46] https://www.irunfar.com/best-mens-running-tights
[47] https://www.irunfar.com/best-water-bottles-for-running
[48] https://www.irunfar.com/best-compression-socks
[49] https://www.irunfar.com/best-recovery-tools-for-athletes
[50] https://www.irunfar.com/best-foam-rollers
[51] https://www.irunfar.com/best-massage-guns
[52] https://www.irunfar.com/best-foot-massagers
[53] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-insoles
[54] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-headphones
[55] https://www.irunfar.com/best-heart-rate-monitors
[56] https://www.irunfar.com/best-jogging-strollers
[57] https://www.irunfar.com/best-maternity-workout-clothes
[58] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoe-brands
[59] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-apparel-brands
[60] https://www.irunfar.com/best-websites-running-gear
[61] https://www.irunfar.com/category/training
[62] https://www.irunfar.com/ultramarathon-training-a-guide-to-everything
[63] https://www.irunfar.com/training/training-for-beginners
[64] https://www.irunfar.com/training/advanced-training
[65] https://www.irunfar.com/training/strength-training
[66] https://www.irunfar.com/training/racing
[67] https://www.irunfar.com/training/fueling
[68] https://www.irunfar.com/training/hydration
[69] https://www.irunfar.com/training/recovery
[70] https://www.irunfar.com/training/aging
[71] https://www.irunfar.com/training/mental
[72] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills
[73] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills/uphill
[74] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills/downhill
[75] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills/technical-terrain
[76] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills/running-at-night
[77] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills/navigation
[78] https://www.irunfar.com/training/treadmill
[79] https://www.irunfar.com/training/mobility
[80] https://www.irunfar.com/training/cross-training
[81] https://www.irunfar.com/training/off-season
[82] https://www.irunfar.com/health
[83] https://www.irunfar.com/health/nutrition
[84] https://www.irunfar.com/health/injuries
[85] https://www.irunfar.com/health/physiology
[86] https://www.irunfar.com/health/sleep
[87] https://www.irunfar.com/health/stress
[88] https://www.irunfar.com/health/female-health
[89] https://www.irunfar.com/health/extreme-environments
[90] https://www.irunfar.com/health/extreme-environments/running-in-cold-weather
[91] https://www.irunfar.com/health/extreme-environments/running-at-high-altitude
[92] https://www.irunfar.com/health/extreme-environments/running-in-hot-weather
[93] https://www.irunfar.com/health/overtraining
[94] https://www.irunfar.com/health/animal-encounters
[95] https://www.irunfar.com/health/illness
[96] https://www.irunfar.com/health/first-aid
[97] https://www.irunfar.com/category/running-gear-reviews/trail-running-shoe-reviews
[98] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes
[99] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cushioned-trail-running-shoes
[100] https://www.irunfar.com/best-lightweight-trail-running-shoes
[101] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes-for-mud
[102] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-lone-peak-8-review
[103] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-mont-blanc-boa-review
[104] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-olympus-5-review
[105] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-outroad-2-review
[106] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-timp-4-review
[107] https://www.irunfar.com/asics-gel-trabuco-11-review
[108] https://www.irunfar.com/brooks-cascadia-17-review
[109] https://www.irunfar.com/brooks-catamount-2-review
[110] https://www.irunfar.com/dynafit-sky-dna-review
[111] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-mafate-speed-4-review
[112] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-speedgoat-5-review
[113] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-tecton-x-2-review
[114] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-torrent-3-review
[115] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-zinal-2-review
[116] https://www.irunfar.com/icebug-acceleritas8-rb9x-review
[117] https://www.irunfar.com/inov-8-x-talon-ultra-260-v2-review
[118] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-akasha-ii-review
[119] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-blizzard-gtx-review
[120] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-bushido-ii-review
[121] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-cyklon-review
[122] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-jackal-ii-review
[123] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-jackal-ii-boa-review
[124] https://www.irunfar.com/merrell-antora-3-review
[125] https://www.irunfar.com/merrell-mtl-skyfire-2-review
[126] https://www.irunfar.com/mizuno-wave-mujin-9-review
[127] https://www.irunfar.com/new-balance-fresh-foam-x-hierro-v7-review
[128] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-kiger-9-review
[129] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-react-pegasus-trail-4-review
[130] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-ultrafly-review
[131] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-zoomx-zegama-review
[132] https://www.irunfar.com/on-cloudultra-2-review
[133] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-glide-max-tr-review
[134] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-s-lab-pulsar-2-review
[135] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-s-lab-ultra-3-v2-review
[136] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-speedcross-6-review
[137] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-ride-15-tr-review
[138] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-endorphin-edge-review
[139] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-endorphin-rift-review
[140] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-peregrine-13-review
[141] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-peregrine-13-st-review
[142] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-golden-gate-atr-review
[143] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-spin-infinity-review
[144] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-spin-planet-review
[145] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-spin-ultra-review
[146] https://www.irunfar.com/scott-kinabalu-ultra-rc-review
[147] https://www.irunfar.com/scott-ultra-carbon-rc-review
[148] https://www.irunfar.com/the-north-face-summit-vectiv-sky-review
[149] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-mtn-racer-3-review
[150] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-pursuit-review
[151] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-terraventure-4-review
[152] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-traverse-review
[153] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-ultraventure-3-review
[154] https://www.irunfar.com/vj-spark-review
[155] https://www.irunfar.com/vj-ultra-2-review
[156] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoe-brands
[157] https://www.irunfar.com/tag/traction-devices
[158] https://www.irunfar.com/best-winter-running-traction-devices
[159] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-distance-spike-review
[160] https://www.irunfar.com/hillsound-flexsteps-crampons-review
[161] https://www.irunfar.com/kahtoola-exospikes-review
[162] https://www.irunfar.com/kahtoola-microspikes-review-2
[163] https://www.irunfar.com/yaktrax-pro-review
[164] https://www.irunfar.com/tag/gps-watches
[165] https://www.irunfar.com/best-gps-running-watch
[166] https://www.irunfar.com/apple-watch-ultra-review
[167] https://www.irunfar.com/coros-vertix-review
[168] https://www.irunfar.com/coros-vertix-2-review
[169] https://www.irunfar.com/garmin-fenix-6-pro-review
[170] https://www.irunfar.com/garmin-fenix-7-solar-edition-review
[171] https://www.irunfar.com/suunto-9-baro-review
[172] https://www.irunfar.com/suunto-9-peak-titanium-review
[173] https://www.irunfar.com/suunto-vertical-titanium-solar-review
[174] https://www.irunfar.com/tag/headlamps
[175] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-headlamp
[176] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-icon-700-headlamp-review
[177] https://www.irunfar.com/petzl-iko-core-review
[178] https://www.irunfar.com/petzl-nao-rl-headlamp-review
[179] https://www.irunfar.com/tag/hydration-packs
[180] https://www.irunfar.com/best-hydration-pack-for-running
[181] https://www.irunfar.com/janji-multipass-sling-bag-review
[182] https://www.irunfar.com/nathan-vaporairess-3-0-7-liter-womens-hydration-pack-review
[183] https://www.irunfar.com/osprey-dyna-lt-review
[184] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-adv-skin-5-review
[185] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-adv-skin-12-review
[186] https://www.irunfar.com/ultimate-direction-ultra-vesta-6-0-review
[187] https://www.irunfar.com/uswe-pace-2-running-vest-review
[188] https://www.irunfar.com/category/running-gear-reviews/running-apparel-reviews
[189] https://www.irunfar.com/2023-arcteryx-running-apparel-review
[190] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-rhythm-t-shirt-review
[191] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-running-gloves-review
[192] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-rhythm-t-shirt-review
[193] https://www.irunfar.com/brooks-dare-sports-bra-collection-review
[194] https://www.irunfar.com/dexshell-waterproof-breathable-accessory-review
[195] https://www.irunfar.com/district-vision-mens-apparel-review
[196] https://www.irunfar.com/drymax-running-socks-review
[197] https://www.irunfar.com/inov-8-raceshell-hz-unisex-review
[198] https://www.irunfar.com/oiselle-running-apparel-review
[199] https://www.irunfar.com/outdoor-research-running-apparel-review
[200] https://www.irunfar.com/patagonia-apparel-review
[201] https://www.irunfar.com/rab-trail-running-apparel-review
[202] https://www.irunfar.com/rab-kinetic-ultra-waterproof-jacket-review
[203] https://www.irunfar.com/rabbit-womens-cold-weather-apparel-review
[204] https://www.irunfar.com/rabbit-womens-apparel-review
[205] https://www.irunfar.com/runderwear-power-running-bra-review
[206] https://www.irunfar.com/smartwool-classic-all-season-merino-base-layer-long-sleeve-review
[207] https://www.irunfar.com/smartwool-womens-apparel-review
[208] https://www.irunfar.com/soar-running-apparel-review
[209] https://www.irunfar.com/soar-running-mens-apparel-review
[210] https://www.irunfar.com/stio-womens-apparel-review
[211] https://www.irunfar.com/sweat-and-milk-venice-sports-bras-review
[212] https://www.irunfar.com/tracksmith-cold-weather-apparel-review
[213] https://www.irunfar.com/vuori-womens-performance-apparel-review
[214] https://www.irunfar.com/tag/running-sunglasses
[215] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-sunglasses
[216] https://www.irunfar.com/100-speedcraft-sunglasses-review
[217] https://www.irunfar.com/dynafit-sky-pro-and-dynafit-trail-evo-sunglasses-review
[218] https://www.irunfar.com/rudy-project-propulse-sunglasses-review
[219] https://www.irunfar.com/smith-bobcat-and-smith-shift-mag-sunglasses-review
[220] https://www.irunfar.com/smith-pinpoint-sunglasses-review
[221] https://www.irunfar.com/smith-ruckus-review
[222] https://www.irunfar.com/smith-vert-pivlock-review
[223] https://www.irunfar.com/tifosi-salvo-sunglasses-review
[224] https://www.irunfar.com/tifosi-tsali-and-swank-sunglasses-reviews
[225] https://www.irunfar.com/category/running-gear-reviews/other-running-gear-reviews
[226] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-distance-carbon-z-trekking-running-poles-review
[227] https://www.irunfar.com/leki-ultratrail-fx-one-superlite-review
[228] https://www.irunfar.com/palante-packs-joey-review
[229] https://www.irunfar.com/red-paw-packs-flatiron-28l-review
[230] https://www.irunfar.com/katadyn-befree-review
[231] https://www.irunfar.com/lifestraw-peak-series-collapsible-squeeze-650-ml-bottle-with-filter-review
[232] https://www.irunfar.com/mountain-laurel-designs-solomid-xl-review
[233] https://www.irunfar.com/feathered-friends-flicker-ul-20-quilt-sleeping-bag-review
[234] https://www.irunfar.com/addaday-pro-stick-massage-roller-review
[235] https://www.irunfar.com/hyperice-hypervolt-2-pro-review
[236] https://www.irunfar.com/hyperice-normatec-3-legs-review
[237] https://www.irunfar.com/roll-recovery-r4-body-roller-review
[238] https://www.irunfar.com/child-carrier-pack-roundup
[239] https://www.irunfar.com/nordictrack-x22i-treadmill-review
[240] https://www.irunfar.com/nordictrack-commercial-x32i-treadmill-review
[241] https://www.irunfar.com/nordictrack-55-lb-select-a-weight-dumbbells-review
[242] https://www.irunfar.com/category/interviews
[243] https://www.irunfar.com/category/interviews
[244] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/the-long-game
[245] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/age-old-runners
[246] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/werunfar
[247] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/catching-up
[248] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns
[249] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/ajws-taproom
[250] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/bryon-powells-column
[251] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/community-voices
[252] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/the-examined-run
[253] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/finding-words
[254] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/it-takes-a-village
[255] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/notes-from-the-trail
[256] https://www.irunfar.com/category/learn/running-on-science
[257] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/running-the-numbers
[258] https://www.irunfar.com/category/learn/stay-the-course
[259] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/this-week-in-running
[260] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/the-long-game
[261] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/werunfar
[262] https://www.irunfar.com/category/learn/where-the-road-ends-a-guide-to-trail-running
[263] https://www.irunfar.com/
[264] https://www.irunfar.com/category/news
[265] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/this-week-in-running
[266] https://www.irunfar.com/category/news
[267] https://www.irunfar.com/irunfars-buyers-guides
[268] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes
[269] https://www.irunfar.com/best-road-running-shoes
[270] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shoes
[271] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-sunglasses
[272] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-hats
[273] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-headlamp
[274] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-belt
[275] https://www.irunfar.com/best-hydration-pack-for-running
[276] https://www.irunfar.com/best-gps-running-watch
[277] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-socks
[278] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-gaiters
[279] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cushioned-trail-running-shoes
[280] https://www.irunfar.com/best-lightweight-trail-running-shoes
[281] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes-for-mud
[282] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cushioned-running-shoes
[283] https://www.irunfar.com/best-stability-running-shoes
[284] https://www.irunfar.com/best-mountain-running-gear
[285] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-gear-for-hot-weather
[286] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trekking-poles
[287] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-rain-jacket
[288] https://www.irunfar.com/best-windbreaker-jackets
[289] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shorts-for-men
[290] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shirts-for-men
[291] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-underwear-for-men
[292] https://www.irunfar.com/best-sports-bra-for-running
[293] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shirts-for-women
[294] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shorts-for-women
[295] https://www.irunfar.com/best-wool-running-apparel
[296] https://www.irunfar.com/best-fastpacking-packs
[297] https://www.irunfar.com/best-ultralight-tent
[298] https://www.irunfar.com/best-ultralight-sleeping-bag
[299] https://www.irunfar.com/best-ultralight-sleeping-pad
[300] https://www.irunfar.com/best-water-filter-for-trail-running
[301] https://www.irunfar.com/best-reflective-running-gear
[302] https://www.irunfar.com/best-winter-running-traction-devices
[303] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cold-weather-running-gear
[304] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-gloves
[305] https://www.irunfar.com/best-mens-running-tights
[306] https://www.irunfar.com/best-water-bottles-for-running
[307] https://www.irunfar.com/best-compression-socks
[308] https://www.irunfar.com/best-recovery-tools-for-athletes
[309] https://www.irunfar.com/best-foam-rollers
[310] https://www.irunfar.com/best-massage-guns
[311] https://www.irunfar.com/best-foot-massagers
[312] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-insoles
[313] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-headphones
[314] https://www.irunfar.com/best-heart-rate-monitors
[315] https://www.irunfar.com/best-jogging-strollers
[316] https://www.irunfar.com/best-maternity-workout-clothes
[317] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoe-brands
[318] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-apparel-brands
[319] https://www.irunfar.com/best-websites-running-gear
[320] https://www.irunfar.com/category/training
[321] https://www.irunfar.com/ultramarathon-training-a-guide-to-everything
[322] https://www.irunfar.com/training/training-for-beginners
[323] https://www.irunfar.com/training/advanced-training
[324] https://www.irunfar.com/training/strength-training
[325] https://www.irunfar.com/training/racing
[326] https://www.irunfar.com/training/fueling
[327] https://www.irunfar.com/training/hydration
[328] https://www.irunfar.com/training/recovery
[329] https://www.irunfar.com/training/aging
[330] https://www.irunfar.com/training/mental
[331] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills
[332] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills/uphill
[333] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills/downhill
[334] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills/technical-terrain
[335] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills/running-at-night
[336] https://www.irunfar.com/training/trail-skills/navigation
[337] https://www.irunfar.com/training/treadmill
[338] https://www.irunfar.com/training/mobility
[339] https://www.irunfar.com/training/cross-training
[340] https://www.irunfar.com/training/off-season
[341] https://www.irunfar.com/health
[342] https://www.irunfar.com/health/nutrition
[343] https://www.irunfar.com/health/injuries
[344] https://www.irunfar.com/health/physiology
[345] https://www.irunfar.com/health/sleep
[346] https://www.irunfar.com/health/stress
[347] https://www.irunfar.com/health/female-health
[348] https://www.irunfar.com/health/extreme-environments
[349] https://www.irunfar.com/health/extreme-environments/running-in-cold-weather
[350] https://www.irunfar.com/health/extreme-environments/running-at-high-altitude
[351] https://www.irunfar.com/health/extreme-environments/running-in-hot-weather
[352] https://www.irunfar.com/health/overtraining
[353] https://www.irunfar.com/health/animal-encounters
[354] https://www.irunfar.com/health/illness
[355] https://www.irunfar.com/health/first-aid
[356] https://www.irunfar.com/category/running-gear-reviews/trail-running-shoe-reviews
[357] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes
[358] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cushioned-trail-running-shoes
[359] https://www.irunfar.com/best-lightweight-trail-running-shoes
[360] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes-for-mud
[361] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-lone-peak-8-review
[362] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-mont-blanc-boa-review
[363] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-olympus-5-review
[364] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-outroad-2-review
[365] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-timp-4-review
[366] https://www.irunfar.com/asics-gel-trabuco-11-review
[367] https://www.irunfar.com/brooks-cascadia-17-review
[368] https://www.irunfar.com/brooks-catamount-2-review
[369] https://www.irunfar.com/dynafit-sky-dna-review
[370] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-mafate-speed-4-review
[371] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-speedgoat-5-review
[372] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-tecton-x-2-review
[373] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-torrent-3-review
[374] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-zinal-2-review
[375] https://www.irunfar.com/icebug-acceleritas8-rb9x-review
[376] https://www.irunfar.com/inov-8-x-talon-ultra-260-v2-review
[377] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-akasha-ii-review
[378] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-blizzard-gtx-review
[379] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-bushido-ii-review
[380] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-cyklon-review
[381] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-jackal-ii-review
[382] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-jackal-ii-boa-review
[383] https://www.irunfar.com/merrell-antora-3-review
[384] https://www.irunfar.com/merrell-mtl-skyfire-2-review
[385] https://www.irunfar.com/mizuno-wave-mujin-9-review
[386] https://www.irunfar.com/new-balance-fresh-foam-x-hierro-v7-review
[387] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-kiger-9-review
[388] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-react-pegasus-trail-4-review
[389] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-ultrafly-review
[390] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-zoomx-zegama-review
[391] https://www.irunfar.com/on-cloudultra-2-review
[392] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-glide-max-tr-review
[393] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-s-lab-pulsar-2-review
[394] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-s-lab-ultra-3-v2-review
[395] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-speedcross-6-review
[396] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-ride-15-tr-review
[397] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-endorphin-edge-review
[398] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-endorphin-rift-review
[399] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-peregrine-13-review
[400] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-peregrine-13-st-review
[401] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-golden-gate-atr-review
[402] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-spin-infinity-review
[403] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-spin-planet-review
[404] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-spin-ultra-review
[405] https://www.irunfar.com/scott-kinabalu-ultra-rc-review
[406] https://www.irunfar.com/scott-ultra-carbon-rc-review
[407] https://www.irunfar.com/the-north-face-summit-vectiv-sky-review
[408] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-mtn-racer-3-review
[409] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-pursuit-review
[410] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-terraventure-4-review
[411] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-traverse-review
[412] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-ultraventure-3-review
[413] https://www.irunfar.com/vj-spark-review
[414] https://www.irunfar.com/vj-ultra-2-review
[415] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoe-brands
[416] https://www.irunfar.com/tag/traction-devices
[417] https://www.irunfar.com/best-winter-running-traction-devices
[418] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-distance-spike-review
[419] https://www.irunfar.com/hillsound-flexsteps-crampons-review
[420] https://www.irunfar.com/kahtoola-exospikes-review
[421] https://www.irunfar.com/kahtoola-microspikes-review-2
[422] https://www.irunfar.com/yaktrax-pro-review
[423] https://www.irunfar.com/tag/gps-watches
[424] https://www.irunfar.com/best-gps-running-watch
[425] https://www.irunfar.com/apple-watch-ultra-review
[426] https://www.irunfar.com/coros-vertix-review
[427] https://www.irunfar.com/coros-vertix-2-review
[428] https://www.irunfar.com/garmin-fenix-6-pro-review
[429] https://www.irunfar.com/garmin-fenix-7-solar-edition-review
[430] https://www.irunfar.com/suunto-9-baro-review
[431] https://www.irunfar.com/suunto-9-peak-titanium-review
[432] https://www.irunfar.com/suunto-vertical-titanium-solar-review
[433] https://www.irunfar.com/tag/headlamps
[434] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-headlamp
[435] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-icon-700-headlamp-review
[436] https://www.irunfar.com/petzl-iko-core-review
[437] https://www.irunfar.com/petzl-nao-rl-headlamp-review
[438] https://www.irunfar.com/tag/hydration-packs
[439] https://www.irunfar.com/best-hydration-pack-for-running
[440] https://www.irunfar.com/janji-multipass-sling-bag-review
[441] https://www.irunfar.com/nathan-vaporairess-3-0-7-liter-womens-hydration-pack-review
[442] https://www.irunfar.com/osprey-dyna-lt-review
[443] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-adv-skin-5-review
[444] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-adv-skin-12-review
[445] https://www.irunfar.com/ultimate-direction-ultra-vesta-6-0-review
[446] https://www.irunfar.com/uswe-pace-2-running-vest-review
[447] https://www.irunfar.com/category/running-gear-reviews/running-apparel-reviews
[448] https://www.irunfar.com/2023-arcteryx-running-apparel-review
[449] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-rhythm-t-shirt-review
[450] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-running-gloves-review
[451] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-rhythm-t-shirt-review
[452] https://www.irunfar.com/brooks-dare-sports-bra-collection-review
[453] https://www.irunfar.com/dexshell-waterproof-breathable-accessory-review
[454] https://www.irunfar.com/district-vision-mens-apparel-review
[455] https://www.irunfar.com/drymax-running-socks-review
[456] https://www.irunfar.com/inov-8-raceshell-hz-unisex-review
[457] https://www.irunfar.com/oiselle-running-apparel-review
[458] https://www.irunfar.com/outdoor-research-running-apparel-review
[459] https://www.irunfar.com/patagonia-apparel-review
[460] https://www.irunfar.com/rab-trail-running-apparel-review
[461] https://www.irunfar.com/rab-kinetic-ultra-waterproof-jacket-review
[462] https://www.irunfar.com/rabbit-womens-cold-weather-apparel-review
[463] https://www.irunfar.com/rabbit-womens-apparel-review
[464] https://www.irunfar.com/runderwear-power-running-bra-review
[465] https://www.irunfar.com/smartwool-classic-all-season-merino-base-layer-long-sleeve-review
[466] https://www.irunfar.com/smartwool-womens-apparel-review
[467] https://www.irunfar.com/soar-running-apparel-review
[468] https://www.irunfar.com/soar-running-mens-apparel-review
[469] https://www.irunfar.com/stio-womens-apparel-review
[470] https://www.irunfar.com/sweat-and-milk-venice-sports-bras-review
[471] https://www.irunfar.com/tracksmith-cold-weather-apparel-review
[472] https://www.irunfar.com/vuori-womens-performance-apparel-review
[473] https://www.irunfar.com/tag/running-sunglasses
[474] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-sunglasses
[475] https://www.irunfar.com/100-speedcraft-sunglasses-review
[476] https://www.irunfar.com/dynafit-sky-pro-and-dynafit-trail-evo-sunglasses-review
[477] https://www.irunfar.com/rudy-project-propulse-sunglasses-review
[478] https://www.irunfar.com/smith-bobcat-and-smith-shift-mag-sunglasses-review
[479] https://www.irunfar.com/smith-pinpoint-sunglasses-review
[480] https://www.irunfar.com/smith-ruckus-review
[481] https://www.irunfar.com/smith-vert-pivlock-review
[482] https://www.irunfar.com/tifosi-salvo-sunglasses-review
[483] https://www.irunfar.com/tifosi-tsali-and-swank-sunglasses-reviews
[484] https://www.irunfar.com/category/running-gear-reviews/other-running-gear-reviews
[485] https://www.irunfar.com/black-diamond-distance-carbon-z-trekking-running-poles-review
[486] https://www.irunfar.com/leki-ultratrail-fx-one-superlite-review
[487] https://www.irunfar.com/palante-packs-joey-review
[488] https://www.irunfar.com/red-paw-packs-flatiron-28l-review
[489] https://www.irunfar.com/katadyn-befree-review
[490] https://www.irunfar.com/lifestraw-peak-series-collapsible-squeeze-650-ml-bottle-with-filter-review
[491] https://www.irunfar.com/mountain-laurel-designs-solomid-xl-review
[492] https://www.irunfar.com/feathered-friends-flicker-ul-20-quilt-sleeping-bag-review
[493] https://www.irunfar.com/addaday-pro-stick-massage-roller-review
[494] https://www.irunfar.com/hyperice-hypervolt-2-pro-review
[495] https://www.irunfar.com/hyperice-normatec-3-legs-review
[496] https://www.irunfar.com/roll-recovery-r4-body-roller-review
[497] https://www.irunfar.com/child-carrier-pack-roundup
[498] https://www.irunfar.com/nordictrack-x22i-treadmill-review
[499] https://www.irunfar.com/nordictrack-commercial-x32i-treadmill-review
[500] https://www.irunfar.com/nordictrack-55-lb-select-a-weight-dumbbells-review
[501] https://www.irunfar.com/category/interviews
[502] https://www.irunfar.com/category/interviews
[503] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/the-long-game
[504] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/age-old-runners
[505] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/werunfar
[506] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/catching-up
[507] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns
[508] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/ajws-taproom
[509] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/bryon-powells-column
[510] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/community-voices
[511] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/the-examined-run
[512] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/finding-words
[513] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/it-takes-a-village
[514] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/notes-from-the-trail
[515] https://www.irunfar.com/category/learn/running-on-science
[516] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/running-the-numbers
[517] https://www.irunfar.com/category/learn/stay-the-course
[518] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/this-week-in-running
[519] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/the-long-game
[520] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/werunfar
[521] https://www.irunfar.com/category/learn/where-the-road-ends-a-guide-to-trail-running
[522] javascript:;
[524] https://www.irunfar.com/category/columns/finding-words
[525] https://www.irunfar.com/author/zmiller
[526] https://www.irunfar.com/stride-by-stride#disqus_thread
[527] https://www.irunfar.com/about-irunfar/privacy
[528] https://s3.amazonaws.com/www.irunfar.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/19024357/Zach-Miller-snow-covered-hills.jpg
[529] https://s3.amazonaws.com/www.irunfar.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/19024546/Zach-Miller-post-cold-run.jpg
[530] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shoes
[531] https://www.irunfar.com/best-road-running-shoes
[532] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cold-weather-running-gear
[533] https://www.instagram.com/zachmiller38/
[534] https://www.irunfar.com/author/zmiller
[535] https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript
[536] https://www.facebook.com/iRunFar/
[537] https://twitter.com/iRunFar
[538] https://www.youtube.com/iRunFarMedia
[539] https://www.instagram.com/irunfar/
[540] https://www.strava.com/clubs/iRunFar
[541] https://irunfar.com/irunfar-daily-emails
[542] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes
[544] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes
[545] https://www.irunfar.com/best-road-running-shoes
[546] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shoes
[547] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-sunglasses
[548] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-hats
[549] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-headlamp
[550] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-belts
[551] https://www.irunfar.com/best-hydration-pack-for-running
[552] https://www.irunfar.com/best-gps-running-watch
[553] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-socks
[554] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-gaiters
[555] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cushioned-trail-running-shoes
[556] https://www.irunfar.com/best-lightweight-trail-running-shoes
[557] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes-for-mud
[558] https://www.irunfar.com/best-stability-running-shoes
[559] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cushioned-running-shoes
[560] https://www.irunfar.com/best-mountain-running-gear
[561] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-gear-for-hot-weather
[562] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trekking-poles
[563] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-rain-jacket
[564] https://www.irunfar.com/best-windbreaker-jackets
[565] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shorts-for-men
[566] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shirts-for-men
[567] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-underwear-for-men
[568] https://www.irunfar.com/best-sports-bra-for-running
[569] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shirts-for-women
[570] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-shorts-for-women
[571] https://www.irunfar.com/best-wool-running-apparel
[572] https://www.irunfar.com/best-fastpacking-packs
[573] https://www.irunfar.com/best-ultralight-tent
[574] https://www.irunfar.com/best-ultralight-sleeping-bag
[575] https://www.irunfar.com/best-ultralight-sleeping-pad
[576] https://www.irunfar.com/best-water-filter-for-trail-running
[577] https://www.irunfar.com/best-reflective-running-gear
[578] https://www.irunfar.com/best-winter-running-traction-devices
[579] https://www.irunfar.com/best-cold-weather-running-gear
[580] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-gloves
[581] https://www.irunfar.com/best-mens-running-tights
[582] https://www.www.irunfar.com/best-water-bottles-for-running
[583] https://www.irunfar.com/best-compression-socks
[584] https://www.irunfar.com/best-recovery-tools-for-athletes
[585] https://www.irunfar.com/best-foam-rollers
[586] https://www.irunfar.com/best-massage-guns
[587] https://www.irunfar.com/best-foot-massagers
[588] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-insoles
[589] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-headphones
[590] https://www.irunfar.com/best-heart-rate-monitors
[591] https://www.irunfar.com/best-jogging-strollers
[592] https://www.irunfar.com/best-maternity-workout-clothes
[593] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoe-brands
[594] https://www.irunfar.com/best-running-apparel-brands
[595] https://www.irunfar.com/best-websites-running-gear
[597] https://www.irunfar.com/best-trail-running-shoes
[598] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-lone-peak-8-review
[599] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-mont-blanc-boa-review
[600] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-olympus-5-review
[601] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-outroad-2-review
[602] https://www.irunfar.com/altra-timp-4-review
[603] https://www.irunfar.com/asics-gel-trabuco-11-review
[604] https://www.irunfar.com/brooks-cascadia-17-review
[605] https://www.irunfar.com/brooks-catamount-2-review
[606] https://www.irunfar.com/dynafit-sky-dna-review
[607] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-mafate-speed-4-review
[608] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-speedgoat-5-review
[609] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-tecton-x-2-review
[610] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-torrent-3-review
[611] https://www.irunfar.com/hoka-zinal-2-review
[612] https://www.irunfar.com/icebug-acceleritas8-rb9x-review
[613] https://www.irunfar.com/inov-8-x-talon-ultra-260-v2-review
[614] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-akasha-ii-review
[615] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-blizzard-gtx-review
[616] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-bushido-ii-review
[617] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-cyklon-review
[618] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-jackal-ii-review
[619] https://www.irunfar.com/la-sportiva-jackal-ii-boa-review
[620] https://www.irunfar.com/merrell-antora-3-review
[621] https://www.irunfar.com/merrell-mtl-skyfire-2-review
[622] https://www.irunfar.com/mizuno-wave-mujin-9-review
[623] https://www.irunfar.com/new-balance-fresh-foam-x-hierro-v7-review
[624] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-kiger-9-review
[625] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-react-pegasus-trail-4-review
[626] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-ultrafly-review
[627] https://www.irunfar.com/nike-zoomx-zegama-review
[628] https://www.irunfar.com/on-cloudultra-2-review
[629] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-glide-max-tr-review
[630] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-s-lab-pulsar-2-review
[631] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-s-lab-ultra-3-v2-review
[632] https://www.irunfar.com/salomon-speedcross-6-review
[633] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-endorphin-edge-review
[634] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-endorphin-rift-review
[635] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-peregrine-13-review
[636] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-peregrine-13-st-review
[637] https://www.irunfar.com/saucony-ride-15-tr-review
[638] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-golden-gate-atr-review
[639] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-spin-infinity-review
[640] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-spin-planet-review
[641] https://www.irunfar.com/scarpa-spin-ultra-review
[642] https://www.irunfar.com/scott-kinabalu-ultra-rc-review
[643] https://www.irunfar.com/scott-ultra-carbon-rc-review
[644] https://www.irunfar.com/speedland-slpdx-review
[645] https://www.irunfar.com/the-north-face-summit-vectiv-sky-review
[646] https://www.irunfar.com/the-north-face-vectiv-infinite-2-review
[647] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-mtn-racer-3-review
[648] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-pursuit-review
[649] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-terraventure-4-review
[650] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-traverse-review
[651] https://www.irunfar.com/topo-ultraventure-3-review
[652] https://www.irunfar.com/vj-spark-review
[653] https://www.irunfar.com/vj-ultra-2-review
[654] https://www.patreon.com/iRunFar
[655] https://www.irunfar.com/
[656] https://www.facebook.com/iRunFar/
[657] https://twitter.com/iRunFar
[658] https://www.youtube.com/iRunFarMedia
[659] https://www.instagram.com/irunfar/
[660] https://www.strava.com/clubs/iRunFar
[661] https://irunfar.com/irunfar-daily-emails
[662] https://irunfar.com/
[663] https://irunfar.com/about-irunfar/irunfar-com
[664] https://www.irunfar.com/about-irunfar/irunfar-com
[665] https://www.irunfar.com/about-irunfar/meghan-hicks
[666] https://www.irunfar.com/about-irunfar/bryon-powell
[667] https://www.irunfar.com/about-irunfar/contributors
[668] https://www.irunfar.com/advertise
[669] https://irunfar.com/archive
[670] https://irunfar.com/rfp
[671] https://www.irunfar.com/rfp
[672] https://www.irunfar.com/where-the-road-ends-a-guide-to-trail-running
[673] https://www.irunfar.com/about-irunfar/privacy
[674] https://irunfar.com/contact
[675] https://www.irunfar.com/help-support-irunfar
