---
title: "Gifts For Your Nerd"
date: 2009-12-16T00:00:00+00:00
draft: false
canonical_url: https://www.viget.com/articles/gifts-for-your-nerd/
---

Shopping for a nerd this holiday season? A difficult proposition, to be
sure. We are, after all, complicated creatures. Fortunately, Viget
Extend is here to help. Here are some gifts your nerd is sure to love.

{{<dither dce_iamakey.jpg "" "inline" />}} [**Lacie iamaKey Flash Drive**](https://www.amazon.com/LaCie-iamaKey-Flash-Drive-130870/dp/B001V7XPSA) **($30)**

If your nerd goes to tech conferences with any regularity, your
residence is already littered with these things. USB flash drives are a
dime a dozen, but this one's different: stylish and rugged, and since
it's designed to be carried on a keychain, it'll always around when your
nerd needs it.

{{<dither dce_aeropress.jpg "" "inline" />}} [**AeroPress**](https://www.amazon.com/AeroPress-Coffee-and-Espresso-Maker/dp/B000GXZ2GS) **($25)**

A simple device that makes a cup of espresso better than machines
costing twenty times as much. Buy this one for your nerd and wake up to
delicious, homemade espresso every morning. In other words, it's the
gift that keeps on giving. If espresso gives your nerd the jitters, you
can't go wrong with a [french
press](https://www.amazon.com/Bodum-Chambord-4-Cup-Coffee-Press/dp/B00012D0R2/).

{{<dither dce_charge_tee.jpg "" "inline" />}} [**SimpleBits Charge Tee**](http://shop.simplebits.com/product/charge-tee-tri-blend) **($22)**

Simple, vaguely Mac-ish graphic printed on an American Apparel Tri-Blend
tee, no lie the greatest and best t-shirt ever created.

{{<dither dce_hard_graft.jpg "" "inline" />}} [**Hard Graft iPhone Case**](http://shop.hardgraft.com/product/base-phone-case) **($60)**

Your nerd probably already has a case for her iPhone, but it's made of
rubber or plastic. Class it up with this handmade leather-and-wool case.
Doubles as a slim wallet if your nerd is of the minimalist mindset, and
here's a hint: we all are.

{{<dither dce_ignore.jpg "" "inline" />}} [**Ignore Everybody**](https://www.amazon.com/Ignore-Everybody-Other-Keys-Creativity/dp/159184259X) **by Hugh MacLeod ($16)**

Give your nerd the motivation to finish that web application he's been
talking about for the last two years so you can retire.

{{<dither dce_moleskine.jpg "" "inline" />}} [**Moleskine Notebook**](https://www.amazon.com/Moleskine-Squared-Notebook-Cover-Pocket/dp/8883707125) **($10)**

What nerd doesn't love a new notebook? Just make sure it's graph paper;
unlined paper was not created for mathematical formulae and drawings of
robots. Alternatively, take a look at [Field
Notes](http://fieldnotesbrand.com). As for pens, I highly, *highly*
recommend the [Uni-ball
Signo](http://www.jetpens.com/product_info.php/cPath/239_90/products_id/466).

{{<dither dce_canon.jpg "" "inline" />}} [**Canon PowerShot S90**](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B002LITT42/) **($400)**

Packs the low-light photographic abilities of your nerd's DSLR into a
compact form factor that fits in his shirt pocket, right next to his
slide rule.

{{<dither dce_newegg.png "" "inline" />}} [**Newegg Gift Card**](https://secure.newegg.com/GiftCertificate/GiftCardStep1.aspx)

If all else fails, a gift card from [Newegg](http://newegg.com) shows
you know your nerd a little better than the usual from Amazon.

{{<dither dce_moto_guzzi.jpg "" "inline" />}} [**Moto Guzzi V7 Classic**](http://www.autoblog.com/2009/09/30/review-moto-guzzi-v7-classic-is-an-italian-beauty-you-can-live/) **($8500)**

Actually, this one's probably just me.

If your nerd is a little more design-oriented, check out Viget Inspire
for ideas from [Owen](https://www.viget.com/inspire/the-winter-scrooge/)
and
[Rob](https://www.viget.com/inspire/10-t-shirts-you-want-to-buy-a-designer/).
Got any other gift suggestions for the nerd in your life, or ARE YOU
YOURSELF a nerd? Link it up in the comments.
