---
title: "New Pointless Project: I Dig Durham"
date: 2011-02-25T00:00:00+00:00
draft: false
needs_review: true
canonical_url: https://www.viget.com/articles/new-pointless-project-i-dig-durham/
---

*This post originally appeared on [Pointless
Corp](http://pointlesscorp.com/).*

There's a lot of love at Viget South for our adopted hometown of Durham,
NC. A few of us decided to use the first [Pointless
Weekend](https://viget.com/flourish/pointless-weekend-3-new-pointless-projects) to
build a tiny application to highlight some of Durham's finer points and,
48 hours later, launched [I Dig Durham](http://idigdurham.com/). Simply
tweet to [\@idigdurham](https://twitter.com/idigdurham) (or include the
hashtag [#idigdurham](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23idigdurham)) or
post a photo to Flickr
tagged [idigdurham](http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/idigdurham) and
we'll pull it into the site. What's more, you can order
a [t-shirt](https://idigdurham.spreadshirt.com/) with the logo on it,
with all proceeds going to [Urban Ministries of
Durham](http://www.umdurham.org/).

As [Rails Rumble](http://railsrumble.com/) (and [Node
Knockout](http://nodeknockout.com/)) veterans, we knew that there's
basically no such thing as too simple a product for these competitions
--- no matter how little you think you have to do, you're always
sweating bullets with half an hour left to go. With that in mind, we
kept I Dig Durham as simple as possible, leaving us plenty of time to
really polish the site.

Though basically feature complete, we've got a few tweaks we plan to
make to the site, and we'd like to expand the underlying app to support
I Dig sites for more of our favorite cities, but it\'s a good start from
[North Carolina\'s top digital
agency](https://www.viget.com/durham)\...though we may be biased.
